Sous Chef


Sous chef will help people learn how to cook, cook for dietary restrictions or improve their diet. With a wide range of recipes the user will be able to find the exact meal type they’re looking for as well as the nutritional breakdown of the meal, price of the ingredients, ingredient substitutes and necessary appliances to make the meal. The user will also be able to order any missing ingredients through DoorDash or Instacart if those services are available in their area.
The user base can include dietitians, people on a diet, people with dietary restrictions such as vegans or vegetarians, anybody looking for help cooking or looking for a new recipe. There is potential for the user base to be very large given the versatility of the site. Even an experienced cook may need help finding ingredient substitutes or a new recipe to meet a dietary restriction. The largest user base would likely be people transitioning their diet and new cooks but everybody has to eat so the potential upper limit of users is very high. 
As previously stated the user will be able to find recipes by ethnicity or dietary restriction. Once a recipe has been selected the user will be able to see the necessary appliances, a nutritional breakdown, a price estimate and, if needed, ingredient substitutes. Users will also be able to plan meals for a week as well as view their previous meal plans.
Users will be able to browse recipes using filters such as ethnicity, dietary restrictions or ingredients the user has on hand. Once the user has selected a recipe they will be able to see the cooking instructions, ingredients and appliances needed for the recipe and nutritional facts about the recipe. If a user doesn’t have a specific ingredient on hand they will be able to view possible substitutes or add the ingredient to their cart to order. The user will then be redirected back the recipe so they can view the quantity of ingredients and steps for cooking the meal.
        Since most data will be acquired through API calls the only tables the database will require will include one table to store user account information, meal plans a user has created, recipes a user has favorited and a cart for any missing ingredients. The account information table will hold the username, password, name, and email for each user. The meal plan table will contain the user ID, up to three meals per day for seven days and daily nutritional intake. The favorited meal table will hold the user ID and the recipe ID provided by the API. The cart table will be updated dynamically to include ingredients the user wants to order and the date they ordered them so they can view their order history at a later point in time.
        Given how much information the Spoonacular API is able to provide it will likely be able to provide all necessary information about a given recipe. The most likely issues to arise will be related to the integration of the Doordash and Instacart APIs given that they will require external login information. 
        Considering the information our site will collect, for the most part, is not sensitive the only sensitive information that will need to be secured is the users password. This will be done using bcrypt. The only other sensitive information the site will involve is the Doordash and Instacart information but that will not be stored in the sites database.
        The only non-CRUD features the current site design will offer is the pagination of recipes when browsing and the search option for recipes. In the future adding the ability for users to upload recipes and receive emails when new recipes that fall into the same categories as their favorite meals are uploaded.